---
layout: post
title: WAF Top 10
subtitle: "The Good The Bad The Ugly"
cover_image: skyking1.png
excerpt: "Learn practical tips on how to defend your web infrastructure against the OWASP Top 10 as well as brute force attacks, web scraping, unauthorized vulnerability scans, fraud, spam and man-in-the-middle attacks. "
author:
  name: John Stauffacher
  twitter: g33kspeed
  gplus: 115459133183253104599
  bio: Defensive Security Expert
  image: js.jpg
---
#How to optimize your WAF for bot detection and mitigation

WAF Tuning for Bot detection is part science, and mostly magic. Things you want to focus on:
* User Agents
	+ You know what User Agents your customers use ( there are plenty of lists of all legit client UAs )
	+ Restrict access to application to only known good user agents
* GeoLocation Enforcement
	+ You know where your clients live. 
	+ Restrict access to your application to only those places where you have clients
	+ Restrict access to your application to only those places where you can actually do business
* JavaScript Noop
	+ Most applications today live and die by JavaScript. If your client does not support JavaScript, then drop them.
	+ Your customer cannot do anything with your content, if your site relies on javascript and their browser does not support it.
	+ Sending a small bit of javascript to validate that they are indeed a browser is considered a very non-evasive way to test
	+ Checking for the fingerprints of common bot framework (PhantomJS 'window' object etc)
* Session Limits
	+ Understand your clients and how they use your applicaiton
	+ Set session limits
		+ TIME
		+ NUMBER
		+ TRAFFIC
	+ Traffic is one limit that is often overlooked. 
* Login Page enforcement
	+ Monitor login pages
		+ Brute Force attacks
		+ Multiple logins from different
			+ Geo Locations
			+ Networks (DSL, Mobile, etc)
	+ Enforce Session revokation
		+ A lot of frameworks don't actually do anything when you hit the 'logout' button

#Why whitelisting is always better than blacklisting

In 2005 an article was published outlining the [6 Dumbest ideas in Computer Security](http://www.ranum.com/security/computer_security/editorials/dumb/) among those dumb ideas was the idea of "enumerating badness". The article defines 'Enumerating Badness' "listing all the bad things that we know about". In the context of WAF - it would be an entirely painstaking process to go through and list out every attack vector (known and _unknown_ ) that our applications would face. Though thats exactly what most WAFs wind up being. A list of 'signatures' of attacks that has to be constantly updated, constantly evaluated. Wouldn't it be a lot easier to just decide to allow only those things we know about, the good routes to our application? Those URIs, Parameters, and Cookies that we have defined in our application and understand and know how they work? I'm pretty sure that process is alot slower, and much more secure than trying to enumerate all that is evil.  

#Optimizing web application security based on your vulnerability Profile

WAFs are extremely versatile. Whether it is mod_security run on the local box, or Imperva, or F5 ASM each one has a collection of bells and whistles that could get you out of every situation. That doesn't mean they have to. It is important to understand your threat profile, and what features you need - and what features could be safely turned off.

#Top 8 Best practices
1. Profile your application
	* Understand everything about your app
		+ URIs
		+ Parameters 
			+ Names
			+ Values ( types as well as actual values )
		+ Cookies
			+ Names
			+ Values ( types )
		+ Uploads
			+ Types
		+ Web Services
	* This profiling will become the base for your WAF strategy
2. Limit your exposure 
	* Any way you can limit your attack surface. Do it.
		* GeoIP fencing
		* Client interrogation
3. Force your application routes
	* Each application has a workflow, make sure your users are following the workflow and not executing 'forcefull browsing' attacks unknowingly
4. SCRUB ALL INPUTS
	* ANY INPUT TAKEN FROM THE CLIENT SHOULD BE SCRUBBED BEFORE PRESENTED
5. Encrypt all cookies
6. Force SSL whenver possible
7. Monitor Login Pages for brute force attempts
8. Always enforce protocol specifics (i.e. deny clients that don't speak the protocol correctly)

##The two thing you should _NEVER_ do 
1. Rely on wildcards in your policy. 
2. Rely purely on signature sets in your WAF policy

